In this video, we're going to learn how to find the eigenvalues of a matrix.
So remember. The key idea
of a value being an eigenvalue.
Is that we're scaling a vector when
we do a multiplication. So in other words, λ is an
eigenvalue if A X equals λ for some non zero X.
And another way of interpreting that is that if we subtract the λX over to the other side and factor
out that if we do A minus λ times X equals
zero for some nonzero X.
So in other words, what we're doing is we're looking for a non-zero element of the kernel of
A- λI. For a square matrix, we know that
the kernel is going to be non-trivial exactly when A- λI
is not invertible.
And one way to see that A- λI is not invertible is to look
at its determinant. You know, an invertible matrix has to have a non-zero determinant.
And if our determinant is zero, we're not invertible. So our technique for finding
the eigenvalues is to compute the determinant of A- λI and figure out what values
of λmake it equal to zero. So let's look at this with our particular
A here. First thing we want to do is write down A minus λ times
the identity. So this is 3  7 ; 2 -2
subtract off λ times the identity, well, we multiply our 1 0 0 1 by
λ, we get λ 0 0 λ. In other words, we have
three minus λ, seven to and negative to
minus λ, so to compute the determinant of
A-λI. We're now doing the determinant of a two by two matrix,
so we'll multiply our diagonal entries -- -2 minus λhere.
We'll subtract off two times seven
our antidiagonal entries. So now we just need to do a little bit of manipulation
and find the roots of this polynomial, which is quadratic in λ. Let's
expand this out. Looks like a λ squared, then minus
λ and minus six and minus 14 from the two times
λ squared minus λminus 20.
And now to find the roots we can just factor. Looks like λ minus five
times λplus four will do the trick. So λequals
five and negative four are the roots of this polynomial.
So they are the eigenvalues of our matrix A.